module.string: new component (#3227)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/module.string.md

---
title: module.string
---

# module.string

`module.string` is a *module loader* component. A module loader is a Grafana Agent Flow 
component which retreives a module and runs the components defined inside of it.

*TODO: Add link to modules concept page once merged*

## Usage

```river
module.string "LABEL" {
	content   = CONTENT
	arguments = {
		argument1 = ARGUMENT1,
		argument2 = ARGUMENT2,
		...
	}
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`content`   | `secret` or `string` | The contents of the module to load as a secret or string. | | yes
`arguments` | `map(any)`  | The values for the supported arguments in the module contents. | | no

`content` is a string that contains the configuration of the module to load.

> `content` is typically loaded via the exports of another component. For example,

Author: ```suggestion
`content` is typically loaded by using the exports of another component. For example,
```

> - local.file.LABEL.content
> - remote.http.LABEL.content
> - remote.s3.LABEL.content

Author: ```suggestion
- `local.file.LABEL.content`
- `remote.http.LABEL.content`
- `remote.s3.LABEL.content`
```

`arguments` allows us to pass parameterized input into a module.
An `argument` marked non-optional in the module being loaded is required in the
`arguments`. It is also not valid to provide an `argument` not defined in the
module being loaded.

*TODO: Add link to argument config-blocks page once merged*

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`exports` | `map(any)` | The exports of the Module loader.

`exports` exposes the `export` config block inside a module. It can be accessed from

> the parent river config via `module.string.LABEL.exports.EXPORT_LABEL

Author: ```suggestion
the parent config via `module.string.LABEL.exports.EXPORT_LABEL
```

*TODO: Add link to export config-blocks page once merged*

## Component health

`module.string` is reported as healthy if the most recent load of the module was 
successful. 

If the module is not loaded successfully, the current health displays as
unhealthy and the health includes the error from loading the module.

## Debug information

`module.string` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

### Debug metrics

`module.string` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Example

> In this example, we pass credentials from a parent river config to a module for
> a `prometheus.remote_write` flow component. We then export that component for use
> in the parent river config. The export can then be used by the parent river config
> as a component.

Author: I found this a little hard to read, WDYT about:

```suggestion
In this example, we pass credentials from a parent config to a module which loads
a `prometheus.remote_write` component. The exports of the 
`prometheus.remote_write` component are exposed to parent config, allowing 
the parent config to pass metrics to it.
```

Parent:

```river
local.file "metrics" {
	filename = "/path/to/prometheus_remote_write_module.river"
}

module.string "metrics" {
	content   = local.file.metrics.content
	arguments = {
		username = env("PROMETHEUS_USERNAME"),
		password = env("PROMETHEUS_PASSWORD"),
	}
}

prometheus.exporter.unix { }

prometheus.scrape "local_agent" {
	targets         = prometheus.exporter.unix.targets
	forward_to      = [module.string.metrics.exports.prometheus_remote_write.receiver]
	scrape_interval = "10s"
}
```

Module:

```river
argument "username" { }

argument "password" { }

export "prometheus_remote_write" {
	value = prometheus.remote_write.grafana_cloud

> }

Author: Huh, I didn't realize this would work honestly, but I understand why it does.

prometheus.remote_write "grafana_cloud" {
	endpoint {
		url = "https://prometheus-us-central1.grafana.net/api/prom/push"

		basic_auth {
			username = argument.username.value
			password = argument.password.value
		}
	}
}
```

> **NOTE**: For the purpose of the above example we have exported the entire
> `prometheus.remote_write.grafana_cloud` component. Alternatively, the module above
> could have exported `prometheus.remote_write.grafana_cloud.receiver` instead of
> the entire component since that is the only part of the component we need in the

> > parent river config.

Author: I think we can drop this note, or have it only export the `receiver` if that will be the most common thing to do.

Reviewer: I can drop the note. I think most common will be people exporting full components but we will see!

---
title: module.string
---

# module.string

> `module.string` is a *Module loader* component. A *Module loader* is a Grafana Agent Flow 

Author: I don't think it's a proper noun. 

Also, after the first usage you can drop the italics.

```suggestion
`module.string` is a *module loader* component. A module loader is a Grafana Agent Flow 
```

component which retreives a module and runs the components defined inside of it.

*TODO: Add link to module concept page above once merged*

## Usage

```river
module.string "LABEL" {
	content   = CONTENT
	arguments = {
		argument1 = ARGUMENT1,
		argument2 = ARGUMENT2,
		...
	}
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `content`   | `secret`    | The contents of the module to load as a secret string. | | yes

Author: ```suggestion
`content`   | `secret or string` | The contents of the module to load as a secret string. | | yes
```

Author: Changed to be "`secret`" or `string`" rather than `secret or string`.

`arguments` | `map(any)`  | The values for the supported arguments in the module contents. | | no

> `content` is a string that contains all the arguments, exports and components for the module. 

Author: Can we say that `content` is a string which contains the configuration source of the module to load?

`content` is typically loaded via the exports of another component. For example,

> - local.file.[label].content
> - remote.http.[label].content
> - remote.s3.[label].content

Author: Follow Google's style guide for how to [Format placeholders](https://developers.google.com/style/placeholders) here: 

```suggestion
- local.file.LABEL.content
- remote.http.LABEL.content
- remote.s3.LABEL.content
```

> `arguments` can contain, but are not limited to strings, components and component exports.

Author: I think this needs a few more pieces of detail, primarily: 

* Any argument marked non-optional in the module being loaded must be present in the `arguments` object 
* It is invalid to provide an argument that is not defined as an `argument` block in the loaded module. 

As it is now, it's not clear how you would know what to put in `arugments`. 

Also: I'm not sure we have to say what type of values are supported, we can just say it can be set to any River expression.

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`exports` | `map(any)` | The exports of the Module loader.

`exports` can contain, but is not limited to strings, components and component exports.

## Component health

> `module.string` will be reported as healthy whenever all of its components have
> been loaded successfully.

Author: Present tense:

```suggestion
`module.string` is reported as healthy if the most recent load of the module was 
successful. 
```

If a component is not loaded successfully, the current health will show as
unhealthy and the health will include the error from the component.

## Debug information

`module.string` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

### Debug metrics

`module.string` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

> ## Example

Reviewer: this is now trimmed way down
